
## Draft
In 2015, OMB released the memo entitled "Policies for Dot Gov Domain Issuance for Federal Agency Public Websites", in which it designated GSA's Office of Government-Wide Policy the official registrar of all .gov domains. The memo further lays out several policy requirements that new and existing federal government websites should adhere to, with the objective of creating a more customer-centric, modern, and secure paradigm for public-facing government websites. As the registrar of .gov domains, GSA is charged with ensuring that new websites meet the policy targets enumerated in the memo and with helping agencies develop consolidation plans for existing websites. 

To this end, GSA OGP plans to develop an online dashboard with information on all federal websites, displaying how well each website conforms to the policy targets as defined in the memo. The dashboard is intended for use by federal CIOs and other IT management professionals to give them newfound insight into their agencies' website portfolios and allow them to identify and fix problems. The ideal service provider would have a great deal of experience in developing similar dashboards, as well as for developing the web crawlers that could be used to automate much of the collection of the data being displayed on the dashboard. If possible, applicable pieces of old dashboards produced by and for GSA may be re-engineered and deployed for this project in less time and with less cost than other providers might be able to deliver. The ideal service provider will also have extensive experience working with federal websites and should therefore come to the table with a solid understanding of the requirements that such a project will involve.
